sconfig - server configuration

help - help command
help /? - Let’s get help about the help command itself

cls - Clear the screen with

ver - check version of windows

systeminfo - detailed information about the system
systeminfo | more - Because the information doesn’t fit on the screen, we can combine (pipe) two commands. 
We can scroll the information line-by-line with Enter key, or page-by-page with Spacebar key. We can quit by pressing the Q key

slmgr.vbs - If we want to get some information about the license, we can do it by using the slmgr.vbs script
slmgr /dlv - Now let’s check current license
slmgr /rearm - If we use a trial (time-based evaluation) version and our period (180 days for Windows Server or 90 days for Windows 10 Enterprise) 
is about to expire or expired already, we can reset (rearm) the counter with:


net - 
net help




Now let’s examine what local users we have. This we will do by using one very old, but powerful command – net

If we just type:

net

We can see how many directions it covers. If we execute:

net help

We will get some helpful information. Now get information about sub-command:

net help user

So, in order to get information about the local users, we should type:

net user

Let’s check the information about the built-in users Administrator and Guest:

net user administrator

net user guest

What about to create a user:

net user demo Password1 /add

Alternative syntaxis, in case you do not want to write the password in plain text, would be:

net user demo * /add

And the groups:

net localgroup

Let’s create a new one:

net localgroup "Demo Group" /add /comment:"Demo group created during the practice"

And add our demo user to it and to the Administrators group:

net localgroup "Demo Group" demo /add

net localgroup Administrators demo /add

Again, check the info about our demo user:

net user demo

If we are working in an installation with Desktop Experience, we can check the graphical tool for managing users and groups. Open Server Manager if not opened already. Choose Computer Management from the Tools menu in the top-right corner. Then go to Local Users and Groups. Check if the user and group created earlier are seen here. Create one more user and add it to the same group. Now return to the console and check the members of the group

Now let’s clear the artefacts that we created earlier:

net localgroup Administrators demo /delete

net localgroup "Demo Group" demo /delete

net user demo /delete

net user

Don’t forget to delete the additional user, created via the GUI tool

There is a shutdown command. Let’s check what are its parameters. This can be done by executing:

help shutdown

Or by:

shutdown /?

Restart the Core machine

shutdown /r /t 0

Or if we want to stop it, we can change the /r switch to /s
